You think he's worth my seeing as a book collector?
Is he a book collector?
He's not really, to my knowledge, a book collector.
He's an autograph collector.
And I don't know how far you're going.
Manuscripts.
Oh, I'm doing everything.
Autographs.
Documents, you know.
Yeah.
I really need some people who are going to give me a little star quality.
This is a commercial book.
Well, you know, an autograph should be a part of your book.
Yeah, definitely.
And he would be a very good one.
I think he would interview you.
There is a publicist who works for Forbes magazine that arranges his interviews and all.
And so you can call up and make an arrangement through there.
I don't remember the name.
Well, I'll find it.
I was interested, Liz Robbins used to be, I was reading some of the stuff.
She's wonderful, Susan Abrams, yeah.
They do what they do.
She's great.
I hope you get that.
Yeah, I like Liz a lot.
She's a wonderful girl.
I don't want to take up too much of your time, because I've got lots of stuff here, but I also don't want, oh yeah, this is a very important question, and then you can go upstairs.
I think you have to be up there by 11.30.
I have to do it in another interview.
Okay, but David Redden said he believes that we are, one of my chapters wrote,
profile with what I believe to be the great golden age of American book collecting, starting with the wholesale of 1911, continuing with this 1912, which brought together, which is a perfect device to bring together J.P.
Morgan, Henry Huntington, Rosenbach, the young Harry Widener, Bella da Costa Green, all these wonderful people, and then just kind of go forward to the current sale of 1929, when he sold everything while he was alive, knew something.
Right.
knew something and get out.
He also sold all his stock, too.
Great crash.
That's the golden age.
You can define it.
You can bracket it by two options, which is why I can't do it.
I'm going to start, however, with this side, and there are parallels.
But Redden says he believes that we are now in the middle of another great golden age.
And I said, how can you say that?
He said that.
He said, well,
First of all, institutional money apparently has dried up, so you now have collectors again able to buy things for themselves.
Secondly, I don't think any of us ever expected to see such wonderful things come in the market as they are now.
Do you agree with that?
Yeah, but it's paralleled in every other market that we deal with.
You can make the same argument in Impressionist paintings or contemporary art.
I think I was asking it in that context, not just books.
Are we in the middle of a great golden age?
You are, but it's a much wider and deeper market than it ever was in the golden age you're talking about, where you were faced much deeper because there are more people, more countries, more individuals involved today than there ever were before.
The market is much more international.
Let's not be vague about deeper.
Deeper meaning more wealthy people or more people collecting?
Both.
Wealth has spread just as knowledge has spread.
And today, you name four or five collectors, and if you're talking about the top things, that's where they would have gone in those years.
Today, you can't do four or five, because the market out there is hundreds of thousands, depending on the level you're at.
A guy like Manny wouldn't have figured in in the 1920s.
He wouldn't have been a hitter in those leagues.
That's right.
And today, he's a hitter.
But there are many more.
If you extend this thing beyond just books, but if you extend this thing beyond books and start talking about paintings and furniture and all the rest of it, you have vast fortunes that have been made in all kinds of different areas.
And instead of having the 400, you've got 400,000.
potential clients out there.
It's a very different thing than it ever was before.
There is a golden age there.
Sure there is.
The supply of property is less than it was then, and what's happening is that the advancing in price is drawing more top-quality things onto the market, which fuels itself.
Do you have a handle on why somebody will spend $40 million for Van Gogh or $20 million for de Kooning?
My God.
I mean, the jury's still out on this guy, for instance, isn't it?
Not anymore.
Well, does price dictate reputation?
That's a good question.
I think people vote with dollars, yeah.
But reputation meaning in terms of enduring reputation?
Well, you know, it's always been that way, anyway.
Going back to time at Memorial, the things which have been worth the most have lasted the longest.
and so I would think they've just voted on Jackson Pollock, and they have voted on Jasper Johns, and they have just recently voted on Picoumi, and they've all been elected to the Hall of Fame.
Well, I think you're going to be elected to the Hall of Fame.
Can I keep this?
Yeah.
Say again?
The Streeter.
The Streeter collection, which we sold in the 70s in Port Brunette,
uh-huh it was a great great book collection it was seven volumes really and tom streeter when he died left a bequest to institutions around the united states which somehow came due at the time the auctions were planned so here's a plan for a library that was unbelievable his son frank streeter you can find it at the whitney company new york cd whitney yeah and frank streeter
Maybe we could talk to him about his playa.
He's a bibliophile himself.
He was at this sale the other night.
He was at this garden sale.
Really?
Frank Streeter.
That's another good one for you.
That's one of the great book collections.
This is fun, you know.
Yeah.
This is lots of fun.
If you're going to like this book, I'm going to send you some things that I wrote.
Okay.
Terrific.
I better move on.
Oh, how about signing my book?
Oh, I'd love to do that.
I've obtained something for myself.
Are there some... I don't accept gifts, for example.
Are there some men at the clock who do endorse products?
I don't think so.
I don't think so, but I give you an idea.
I wouldn't... I don't accept gifts.
There are people who love you because you're a pastor.
Say, hey, I'd like to give you some money for yourself.
Well, in the old days, you'd have a small little town, and maybe that's the way the pastor lived.
That's true, that's true.
But it's a different world today.
We pastors are given a salary, and I'm speaking more from somebody saying, well, I want to give you my home and $100,000.
But I'm like, no, I can't do that, won't do that.
You mentioned on page 123, I believe it is, according to it.
that you felt commissioned to evangelize the world.
Were you written figuratively there?
No.
Or is it your mission to evangelize the world?
Evangelize means to preach the gospel to every person.
To four or five billion people?
Yes, and that doesn't mean that I will achieve it, but that's my goal.
I want to, through television, radio, sending out graduates from Liberty University, missionaries, pastors, challenging churches to world missions,
I would like to, in my generation, see the world evangelized, and I'd like to be a part of it.
Could you define what it means to evangelize?
Evangelize means to share the gospel, the message of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and salvation by belief in Christ with every person, to make Christ available to every person.
You can't coerce anyone to become a Christian, but evangelism is to make Christ available to everyone.
does to evangelize a new birth, does it imply or does it require the teachings of Christ or are there any other major?
Well, as a Christian minister... In the world of religions, that would be equally appropriate.
As a Christian minister, I believe that Christ exclusively, John 14, 6, is the way, the truth, the life, that no man comes to the Father but by Him.
And I therefore...
do not preach that Christ is a way, but that he's the only way.
Some people have, perhaps, a misconception, but I think that when the moral majority was first being identified and flexing his muscles, which was considerably absurd, there was a sense among some people that there was an either you're with us or against us,
I certainly did not intend for that to be out.
But it is very possible because at the time when Moral Majority was started, we were on the outside looking in.
Evangelical Christians were primarily, were much like the black church of 30 years ago.
40 years ago, we were outside.
We were knocking on the door very hard.
We were very strident.
We're equal partners now.
We're inside.
We're seated at the table.
It isn't necessary to be strident anymore.
And at the time it was.
When you are strident and when you are aggressive, it is very easy for people to get the idea these guys want to take over.
They want to own the place.
But in reality, you just want a voice and equal influence.
So you would say that's not the case, therefore.
There is certainly plenty of room for it.
For everyone.
And you do, towards the back of the book, you do have a list of things that you support, and I think it's kind of a position paper that's not very interesting.
I think we have to go over it to get there.
Okay.
I'm sorry, I don't have anything to share with you here.
I'm going to have dinner with my wife and two little girls.
How old are the girls?
The girls are six and five.
Six and five, that's great.
Great.
They're the joy, aren't they?
Oh, boy, aren't they?
They're the future.
I have a 25-year-old son now who's a lawyer and just got married.
He did a lot of the research apparently.
Oh, I couldn't double that.
He's so bright, you know.
He's just brighter than I am.
And he is.
He's just brilliant.
And it makes you feel real good when you have a kid who starts where you are
Did you write all this?
I had to because, you know, unlike I had a professional editor, but not a professional writer, simply because people know how I talk.
And I talk so much publicly.
Anybody pick the book and say, Jerry, you didn't say that.
That's not you.
So I had to dictate every bit of it on tape, and Mel White,
out in Southern Cal helped me.
He spent, I paid him a lot of money with his staff to take all those tapes every day and put them together, kind of bring them to me.
But I had to do it myself.
A lot of work there.
It's well written.
The language is used well as a critic.
Thank you.
Well, that's why I asked.
Where do you go to church today?
I'm a Greek Orthodox.
Greek Orthodox.
Mark is, Dimash is really
Demosthenes.
And his father was on my board who died in 79, Arthur Demos.
He started the National Liberty Corporation, about five insurance companies.
He died in 53, a very young man.
He marks one of seven children who now are responsible for all of that.
He's a graduate of Liberty University.
school that I'm chancellor of and my administrative assistant, but he's a very successful young man.
You mentioned that you talk to God every day and that the structure of the prayer is irrelevant.
Yes.
Is that correct?
Yes, just fellowship with the Lord.
To me, it's prayer, my talking to God.
Conversationally?
Yes.
Do you open it formally, though?
Oh, yes, I do.
Do you say, dear God, this is Jerry?
I don't, he knows who I am.
Do you think he's privy to every thought?
I do.
And he's privy to this conversation?
Right now, right now.
And every conversation that's going on?
I think so.
He's God and therefore omniscient.
And I personally believe that he's as intimate as we'll let him be in our lives.
And I just take everything, my children,
All three of them are successful, but it's because my wife and I really prayed over them, even when they were away from us in medical school, law school, whatever.
Just every day, by name, by need, this test they're going to take today, this tough exam they're facing tomorrow, the bar exam, and all.
You don't ask God to help them pass the test, do you?
I ask the Lord to help them remember.
And do their best.
I'm offended when I see a... God doesn't bless law...
to win.
That seems to defeat the purpose of competition.
Sure does.
No, that's not it.
Do your best.
Do the best you're capable of doing.
No less.
You come across as a good old Southern storyteller.
Is that important for a preacher to have this gift of gab?
I think so.
I didn't always have it, but it certainly
to communicate.
The average audience can only concentrate a few minutes, national or otherwise, and you need to break it real often and punctuate with stories and go back and emphasize principle.
A fellow who thinks that somebody's listening to them for an hour unbroken is just conceited.
Nobody's doing that.
You're not that good.
I find it very interesting in the
He's been a lifelong alcoholic.
And his father was an alcoholic.
And he has two daughters, one of whom is also an alcoholic, and another who is married with him.
But he's been okay for a couple years now.
But he has just written and sold the book to the Crown Publishers.
on adult children of alcoholics.
And it's very interesting how being this child of an alcoholic has affected your life.
And clearly, this has had something that there has been a similar eternity in your life, I can gather.
I've got it from the book.
Yes.
Is that correct?
It has, my quote, an alcoholic.
Except it turned me against alcohol.
So I sort of get to it.
And I literally hated this stuff.
Would you have been a man of God, had that not been a fact of your life?
I would have, but if I had never become a Christian, I would not have used alcoholic beverages.
I saw what it did to him.
And just plain common sense, I wouldn't have done it.
Do you see that as having been a teaching exercise?
I mean, is that something that happened to your benefit, or I wonder?
You know, I don't like to say that the pain of my father was for my good.
But it worked out?
But it worked out that way, yes.
Yes, I do.
What's the greatest crisis facing us today?
I guess we can wrap it up very shortly.
Well, we have two.
crises, I think that, as I see it right now, we have little chance of dealing with it.
One is the AIDS crisis.
It is out of control.
Awful.
Surgeon General says he sees no vaccine in this century.
Dr. Cook further says that 100 million people will be dead by the time of the century, worldwide.
And then he says it's exponential.
He said that to me personally.
100 million?
Dead.
By the year 2000.
100 million dead.
And then he said it's exponential.
And no, he said, I see no vaccine in this century.
That's an awful thought.
That doesn't mean there won't be one.
But at the moment, he doesn't see it.
That's where Christians ought to be praying for a breakthrough.
We need a miracle.
We need every person in the world who believes in prayer should be prayed.
That is, nothing has ever happened to humanity.
Only 50 million died in World War II.
I mean, you know, we have about 100 million people.
50 million, the worst war ever fought, died.
And secondly, at the present moment, I do not see any way
to prevent the Soviet-Cuban expansionism in this hemisphere.
Nicaragua is gone.
Cuba is gone.
It's a matter of time.
El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, et cetera.
Panama, Mexico.
So it's the government old theory is actually 80s style.
I see it in the 90s with Reagan out.
I can only hope that someone will be strong enough to do what needs to be done, and it's very unpopular.
Nobody wants war, nobody, and yet we have our head in the same.
Once it has happened, it'll happen so quickly.
And suddenly, we have scores of millions crossing the border into this country.
And we know what that does here in every area to us.
And then we have hostile neighbors, armed, hostile neighbors, next door.
And like Poland, like the Eastern Bloc nations, it becomes a matter of time until the country is infiltrated, subverted, and overthrown.
You're a young man, you're in the 50s, 50s, 3, 4, 4.
I hope I have motivated and am motivating a younger generation.
We have 8,000 students at the university, a large political science major, to carry it on.
To make a lasting mark, my greatest possible contribution is to train thousands of young people who will be here when I'm gone with the message and the motivation to say what needs to be said.
So I have to stop now from what I'm doing as a one-man army out there and go back and train the young people.
I think I'll wrap it up there, sir.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
I'm going to kindly inscribe this for me.
I will.